doc/instructions.rst, before:

==========================
Unittest tutorial 
==========================
--------------------------------
practical exercise
--------------------------------

:Date: 12-04-2014
:Version: 0.1
:Authors: - Hrobjartur Thorsteinsson 
          - (thorsteinssonh@gmail.com)

Assignment
==========================
Your assignment is to implement a missing
unittest for the **phonebook** package.

Implement the **test_lookup** unit test inside
the file **tests / test_dummydb_phonebook_layer.py**.
Optionally implement the **test_unknown_command** inside
the file **test / test_phonebook_terminal.py**. Note that this second 
test requires a bit more code reading and applies a more
advanced use of the **Mock** class.

If you are interested in what the software does,
try running the **phonebookterminal.py**
( type help for instructions ),

.. code::

	  $ ./phonebookterminal.py
	  
	  PHONE BOOK TERMINAL
	  v0.1.0
	  phonebook: 
	  phonebook: insert Hrobjartur Thorsteinsson;Studlasel 24;4991911
	  phonebook: lookup Hrobjartur Thorsteinsson
	  Hrobjartur Thorsteinsson;Studlasel 24;4991911
	  phonebook: 
	  phonebook: lookup Bolli Palmason
	  None
	  phonebook: exit
	  have a nice day!
	  $

The **phonebookterminal** software allows users to insert
or lookup phonebook entries in a database.

Install software tools
====================================
The essential testing tools are
the mock and nose package for python,

.. code:: bash

	$ sudo apt-get install python-mock
	$ sudo apt-get install python-nose

Optionally, if you want to compile
UML diagrams or documentation,

.. code:: bash

	$ sudo apt-get install graphviz
	$ sudo apt-get install pylint
	$ sudo apt-get install python-coverage
	$ sudo apt-get install rst2pdf


Run the tests
======================

The **nose** package includes a 'testrunner' called
**nosetests**.  The testrunner automatically looks up
classes that derive from unittest.TestCase,
executes the tests and reports a result.

Now execute all the tests found in the tests directory,

.. code:: bash

	  $ nosetests -v tests/

All but two tests should pass. Two tests
have been defined but not yet implemented,

.. code:: bash
   
   ERROR: test_lookup (test_dummydb_phonebook_layer.TestPhoneBookLayer)
   ERROR: test_unknown_command (test_phonebook_terminal.TestPhoneBookTerminal)

Optionally use **coverage** to evaluate how well the
tests are 'covering' the code,

.. code:: bash

   $ nosetests -v --with-coverage tests/
   $ coverage report

   Name                                  Stmts   Miss Branch BrMiss  Cover
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
   phonebook/__init__                        2      0      0      0   100%
   phonebook/dummy_database                 15     10      2      2    29%
   phonebook/dummydb_phonebook_layer        13      4      2      2    60%
   phonebook/phonebook_layer_interface       7      2      0      0    71%
   phonebook/phonebook_terminal             57     28     12      3    55%
   phonebook/version                         4      0      0      0   100%
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL                                    98     44     16      7    55%

The percentage coverage should improve somewhat after implementing the
new tests.

Code structure
==========================
The software uses a database abstraction
layer (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_abstraction_layer)
to hide the functionality of an actual database module.

An abstraction layer is a 'programming pattern'
that helps isolate your code from external libraries. 
This technique makes your code less dependent 
on those libraries by calling an intermediary layer.

In our case the database module being used is a demonstration
module called **DummyDataBase**. Our abstraction
from this database is called **DummydbPhoneBookLayer**,
which implements an interface **PhoneBookLayerInterface**.
The **PhoneBookTerminal** talks only to the 
**DummydbPhoneBookLayer**, which in turn talks to the
**DummyDataBase**.

Class diagram
++++++++++++++++++++++++++
You can generate a UML class diagram for the code
using **pyreverse** (shippes with pylint),

.. code:: bash

	$ pyreverse -o png phonebook/*.py

.. image:: class_diagram.png
	:width: 1000px

Commit message:

doc update
doc update - git clone.

doc/instructions.rst, after:

==========================
Unittest tutorial 
==========================
--------------------------------
practical exercise
--------------------------------

:Date: 12-04-2014
:Version: 0.1
:Authors: - Hrobjartur Thorsteinsson 
          - (thorsteinssonh@gmail.com)

Assignment
==========================
Your assignment is to implement a missing
unittest for the **phonebook** package.
Clone the project from google code,

.. code:: bash

	$ git clone http://code.google.com/p/unittesttutorial

Implement the **test_lookup** unit test inside
the file **tests / test_dummydb_phonebook_layer.py**.
Optionally implement the **test_unknown_command** inside
the file **test / test_phonebook_terminal.py**. Note that this second 
test requires a bit more code reading and applies a more
advanced use of the **Mock** class.

If you are interested in what the software does,
try running the **phonebookterminal.py**
( type help for instructions ),

.. code::

	  $ ./phonebookterminal.py
	  
	  PHONE BOOK TERMINAL
	  v0.1.0
	  phonebook: 
	  phonebook: insert Hrobjartur Thorsteinsson;Studlasel 24;4991911
	  phonebook: lookup Hrobjartur Thorsteinsson
	  Hrobjartur Thorsteinsson;Studlasel 24;4991911
	  phonebook: 
	  phonebook: lookup Bolli Palmason
	  None
	  phonebook: exit
	  have a nice day!
	  $

The **phonebookterminal** software allows users to insert
or lookup phonebook entries in a database.

Install software tools
====================================
The essential testing tools are
the mock and nose package for python,

.. code:: bash

	$ sudo apt-get install python-mock
	$ sudo apt-get install python-nose

Optionally, if you want to compile
UML diagrams or documentation,

.. code:: bash

	$ sudo apt-get install graphviz
	$ sudo apt-get install pylint
	$ sudo apt-get install python-coverage
	$ sudo apt-get install rst2pdf


Run the tests
======================

The **nose** package includes a 'testrunner' called
**nosetests**.  The testrunner automatically looks up
classes that derive from unittest.TestCase,
executes the tests and reports a result.

Now execute all the tests found in the tests directory,

.. code:: bash

	  $ nosetests -v tests/

All but two tests should pass. Two tests
have been defined but not yet implemented,

.. code:: bash
   
   ERROR: test_lookup (test_dummydb_phonebook_layer.TestPhoneBookLayer)
   ERROR: test_unknown_command (test_phonebook_terminal.TestPhoneBookTerminal)

Optionally use **coverage** to evaluate how well the
tests are 'covering' the code,

.. code:: bash

   $ nosetests -v --with-coverage tests/
   $ coverage report

   Name                                  Stmts   Miss Branch BrMiss  Cover
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
   phonebook/__init__                        2      0      0      0   100%
   phonebook/dummy_database                 15     10      2      2    29%
   phonebook/dummydb_phonebook_layer        13      4      2      2    60%
   phonebook/phonebook_layer_interface       7      2      0      0    71%
   phonebook/phonebook_terminal             57     28     12      3    55%
   phonebook/version                         4      0      0      0   100%
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
   TOTAL                                    98     44     16      7    55%

The percentage coverage should improve somewhat after implementing the
new tests.

Code structure
==========================
The software uses a database abstraction
layer (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_abstraction_layer)
to hide the functionality of an actual database module.

An abstraction layer is a 'programming pattern'
that helps isolate your code from external libraries. 
This technique makes your code less dependent 
on those libraries by calling an intermediary layer.

In our case the database module being used is a demonstration
module called **DummyDataBase**. Our abstraction
from this database is called **DummydbPhoneBookLayer**,
which implements an interface **PhoneBookLayerInterface**.
The **PhoneBookTerminal** talks only to the 
**DummydbPhoneBookLayer**, which in turn talks to the
**DummyDataBase**.

Class diagram
++++++++++++++++++++++++++
You can generate a UML class diagram for the code
using **pyreverse** (shippes with pylint),

.. code:: bash

	$ pyreverse -o png phonebook/*.py

.. image:: class_diagram.png
	:width: 1000px
